docs: add otel ebpf profiling support (#3713)
grafana/pyroscope: docs/sources/configure-client/opentelemetry/ebpf-profiler.md

---

> title: OpenTelemetry Profiles Support (Experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: OpenTelemetry profiles support (experimental)
```

> menuTitle: OpenTelemetry Profiles

Reviewer: Are OpenTelemetry Profiles a proper noun? We use sentence case usually. 
```suggestion
menuTitle: OpenTelemetry Profiles
```

Author: Updated e732ce92bb942e28df452c14a9a00cc546df39a3

description: Pyroscope's experimental support for OpenTelemetry profiles
weight: 10
---

> # OpenTelemetry Profiles Support (Experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# OpenTelemetry profiles support (experimental)
```

> # OpenTelemetry profiles support (experimental)

Reviewer: This error message should be resolved when the frontmatter suggestion is committed.

> Pyroscope now includes experimental support for receiving and visualizing profiles from OpenTelemetry sources. This integration allows you to:

Reviewer: We have some standard wording for experimental features: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsexperimental

Is the product name correct in the line below?

```suggestion
{{< docs/experimental product="OpenTelemetry profiles" >}}

Pyroscope includes experimental support for receiving and visualizing profiles from OpenTelemetry sources. This integration allows you to:
```

- Collect system-wide profiles using the [OpenTelemetry eBPF profiler](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ebpf-profiler)
- Process profile data through the OpenTelemetry Collector
- Visualize profiles in Grafana using Pyroscope

> ## Important Notes About Current Status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Considerations
```

> Before getting started, please be aware of the following limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before getting started, you should consider the following limitations:
```

    - Breaking changes are expected and have occurred
    - Compatibility between components (profiler, collector, backend) requires careful version management
    - We maintain support for the latest protocol version, but updates may be required frequently

- Symbolization support is currently limited:
  - Function names may not appear in flamegraphs for some programs
  - We're working on improving symbol resolution and adding support for manual symbol uploads

- We recommend evaluating this feature for development and testing purposes, but waiting for protocol stabilization before production use

## Requirements

- Linux system (amd64/arm64) for eBPF profiler
- OpenTelemetry Collector with profiles feature gate enabled
- Grafana with Pyroscope data source enabled

## Architecture

The profile collection pipeline consists of:

1. **OpenTelemetry eBPF Profiler**: Collects system-wide profiles
2. **OpenTelemetry Collector**: Receives and forwards profile data
3. **Pyroscope**: Stores and processes profiles
4. **Grafana**: Visualizes profile data

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: We use sentence case in headings. 
```suggestion
## Get started
```

> For detailed setup instructions and working examples, refer to our [examples repository](https://github.com/grafana/pyroscope/tree/main/examples/grafana-agent-auto-instrumentation/ebpf-otel).

Reviewer: we try to avoid using first person (we) unless it's a blog post or release notes. 
```suggestion
For detailed setup instructions and working examples, refer to the [examples repository](https://github.com/grafana/pyroscope/tree/main/examples/grafana-agent-auto-instrumentation/ebpf-otel).
```
